+++
author = "Nas"
title = "Guide on how to make a personal website using Hugo"
date = "2024-11-12"
description = "Guide to  Hugo"
tags = [
    "guide",
    "dev",
]
thumbnail= "posts/hugo.png"
+++

## 1. Introduction

Hugo is a static site generator that allows you to create beautiful websites with minimal effort. In this guide, we will walk you through the process of setting up and customizing a Hugo website. We will cover topics such as installing Hugo, creating a new site, customizing the theme, adding content, and deploying the website.

## 2. Installing Hugo

To install Hugo, you can follow the instructions on the official Hugo website. You can download the Hugo binary for your operating system and add it to your system's PATH. Alternatively, you can use a package manager to install Hugo. For example, on Ubuntu, you can use the following command:
`sudo apt-get install hugo`

## 3. Creating a New Site

Once you have Hugo installed, you can create a new site by running the following command:
`hugo new site username.github.io`

Change `username.github.io` to your desired username.
This will create a new directory called mysite with the necessary files and directories for a Hugo site.

## 4. Customizing the Theme

Hugo comes with a variety of themes that you can choose from. You can choose a theme from the themes available on the Hugo website. To install a theme follow their guides on how to install a theme.

Once you have chosen a theme, you can customize it by modifying the files in the themes directory. For example, you can modify the layout files to change the look and feel of your website.

## 5. Adding Content

You can add content to your Hugo site by creating new markdown files in the content directory. Using this command:

`hugo new post/my-post.md` will create a new markdown file in the content/post directory.

## 6. Deploying the Website on Github Pages

To deploy your Hugo website on Github Pages, you need to push your site to a Github repository. You can do this by following these steps:

1. Create a new repository on Github by the name username.github.io.

2. Initiating git inside your hugetest directory:

`git init`

3. Add the remote repository:

`git remote add origin https://github.com/username/username.github.io.git`

4. Add all the files to the staging area:

`git add .`

5. Commit the changes:

`git commit -m "Initial commit"`

6. Push the changes to the remote repository:

`git push -u origin main`

7. Finally, you can deploy your website by running the following command:

`git subtree push --prefix public origin gh-pages`

8. Make sure you have the correct permissions and that your repository is set up correctly to the gh-pages branch. You can check this by going to your repository on Github and checking the branches. You should see a branch called gh-pages.

## 7. Conclusion

In this guide, we have covered the process of setting up and customizing a Hugo website. We have covered topics such as installing Hugo, creating a new site, customizing the theme, adding content, and deploying the website. We hope this guide helps you get started with Hugo and create your own beautiful personal blogging/portfolio website. Happy coding! 🚀

---

### N.B:

This is not a technical guide on how to 101. This is purely pouring my thoughs on how to make a personal website using Hugo. I will not cover the technical aspects of Hugo, but rather the process of setting up and customizing a Hugo website.
